hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions this is a no
calculator question the value of the
logarithm of three to the base of two is
which of the following options between 1
and 1/3 and 1 and 1/2 between 1 and 1/2
and 1 and 2/3 between 1 and 2/3 and 2 or
between 2 and 3
this is adapted from an oxford
admissions test pause the video if you'd
like to give it a try and when you're
ready keep watching to learn how to
solve this problem
[Music]
so before I get to the solution I'll
mention this problem is an example of
calculating an upper and lower bound
this is a very useful skill in
mathematics particularly if you take a
university course like real analysis so
how can we solve this problem let's
write X is equal to the log of 3 to the
base of 2 by the rules of logarithms
this means 2 to the power of X is equal
to 3 now let's raise both sides to the
power of 3 notice that 3 cubed is equal
to 27 and 27 is less than 32 which is
equal to 2 to the power of 5 this means
that 2 raised to the power of X raised
to the power of 3 will be less than 32
which is equal to 2 to the power 5
consequently 2 raised to the power of 3x
is less than 2 to the power 5 which then
means 3x is less than 5 we then divide
both sides by 3 and get X is less than 5
over 3 which is equal to 1 and 2/3 this
is an upper bound on X now we'll do the
same sort of exercise to get a lower
bound we start out the same way but now
we'll raise both sides to the power of 2
3 squared is then equal to 9 9 is
greater than 8 and 8 is equal to 2
raised to the power of 3 this means 2
raised to the power of x raised to the
power of 2 is greater than 2 raised to
the power of 3 which then means 2 raised
to the power of 2x is greater than 2 to
the power of 3 so then 2x is greater
than 3 we then divide both sides by 2
and so X is greater than 3 halves which
is equal to 1 and 1/2 and this is a
lower bound so now we're going to put
these two inequalities together and we
get that X is between 1 and 1/2 and 1
and 2/3 and that's answer choice B
incredible we solve this all without
using a calculator
thanks for watching and for making mind
your decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube thanks for watching and
thanks for your support
[Music]
you